README.md, before:

# rg.el

[![License GPL 3](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-GPL_3-green.svg?style=flat)](LICENSE)
[![MELPA Stable](https://stable.melpa.org/packages/rg-badge.svg)](https://stable.melpa.org/#/rg)
[![MELPA](http://melpa.org/packages/rg-badge.svg)](http://melpa.org/#/rg)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dajva/rg.el.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/dajva/rg.el)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/dajva/rg.el/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/dajva/rg.el)

Use [ripgrep](https://github.com/BurntSushi/ripgrep) in Emacs.

Ripgrep is a replacement for both grep like (search one file) and ag
like (search many files) tools. It's fast and versatile and written in
Rust. For some introduction and benchmarks, see
[ripgrep is faster than {grep, ag, git grep, ucg, pt, sift}](http://blog.burntsushi.net/ripgrep/).

This package let you run `ripgrep` like `grep` from within Emacs.

![screenshot](screenshot.png)

## Installation

This package is available on
[MELPA Stable](https://stable.melpa.org/#/rg) and
[MELPA](http://melpa.org/#/rg). Install with `M-x package-install`
<kbd>RET</kbd> `rg` from within Emacs.

If you want to install manually just put `rg.el` somewhere in your
load path and add this to `init.el`

``` el
(require 'rg)
(rg-enable-default-bindings)
```

`rg` and friends are autoloaded symbols which means it's also possible
to defer loading if you have autoloading setup.

### wgrep

This package use [wgrep](https://github.com/mhayashi1120/Emacs-wgrep)
for doing changes to matched files from the rg results buffer. No
setup is needed.


## Usage

### Main entry point - `rg`
Invoke by `M-x rg`. This works the same way as `M-x rgrep`,
i.e. you get an interactive prompt to enter search details. Universal
argument can be used as for `rgrep`.

### Project search - `rg-project`
`M-x rg-project` searches in a project defined by
[projectile](https://github.com/bbatsov/projectile),
[find-file-in-project](https://github.com/technomancy/find-file-in-project)
or a `vc-backend`.

### Do what I mean - `rg-dwim`
`M-x rg-dwim` searches for _thing at point_ in a project in all files
with the same type alias as the current buffer file.

### Literal search - `rg-literal`
`M-x rg-literal` is a non regexp version of `rg`.

### Saving searches
A search result buffer can be saved by invoking `rg-save-search` or
`rg-save-search-as-name`. The former will give the saved buffer a
unique name and the latter will prompt the user for a name. The
`rg-list-searches` command will open a buffer with all active
`rg-mode` buffers showing basic information about each search.

### Type aliases

[ripgrep](https://github.com/BurntSushi/ripgrep) has its own built in
mappings from type names to file name patterns that can be selected
from `rg.el` on invocation of `rg`. It's also possible to specify a
custom file name pattern in the files prompt.

There are some aliases with special meanings in `rg.el`.

| Name | Meaning |
|-----|--------|
| _all_ | all defined types including `rg-custom-type-aliases` |
| _everything_ | all files, i.e. running rg without `--type` flag |
| _custom_ | used internally in ``rg.el`` for mapping custom globs. Do not use this in `rg-custom-type-aliases` |

### Key bindings
This package comes with a set of predefined key bindings that can be
enabled by calling `rg-enable-default-bindings` with an optional
prefix key of choice. The default prefix is `C-c s` and can be
customized with [rg-keymap-prefix](#rg-keymap-prefix).
It is also possible to set the prefix when invoking `rg-enable-default-bindings`.

```el
(rg-enable-default-bindings "\M-s")
```

| Key | Binding |
|-----|--------|
| `<prefix> d` | `rg-dwim` |
| `<prefix> k` | `rg-kill-saved-searches` |
| `<prefix> l` | `rg-list-searches` |
| `<prefix> p` | `rg-project` |
| `<prefix> r` | `rg` |
| `<prefix> s` | `rg-save-search` |
| `<prefix> S` | `rg-save-search-as-name` |
| `<prefix> t` | `rg-literal` |

### The \*rg\* buffer
The `rg` results buffer has bindings for modification of the last
search for quick reruns with refined parameters.

| Key | Description |
|-----|--------|
| `c` | Toggle case insensitive setting |
| `d` | Change directory |
| `f` | Change file pattern |
| `g` | Rerun search |
| `i` | Toggle `--no-ignore` flag |
| `l` | List search buffers in a separate buffer |
| `r` | Edit search string as regexp |
| `s` | Save search result to unique name |
| `S` | Save search result, prompt for name |
| `t` | Edit search string as literal |
| `w` | Switch to wgrep mode |
| `C-f` | Navigate forward in search history |
| `C-b` | Navigate backward in search history |

### History navigation
Search history is stored per result buffer. It's possible to navigate back
and forward in earlier searches with `rg-back-history` and
`rg-forward-history`. Whenever a search is modified or a new is
created future searches are cleared.

## Customize

### `rg-custom-type-aliases`
Custom type patterns as for rgrep are supported via customizing of
`rg-custom-type-aliases`.

```el
(setq rg-custom-type-aliases
  '(("foo" .    "*.foo *.bar")
    ("baz" .    "*.baz *.qux")))
```

You may also add lambdas to `rg-custom-type-aliases` to add aliases
dynamically based on mode, directory, project, etc.

```el
 (add-to-list
  'rg-custom-type-aliases
  (lambda ()
    (when (in-frontend-app)
      (cons "ui" "*.js *.hbs *.json"))))
```
### `rg-default-alias-fallback`
This setting controls the default alias used when no alias can be
recognized for the current buffer. Default setting for this is _all_
and _everything_ is another reasonable value for this variable.

### `rg-command-line-flags`
Additional command line flags that will be appended to the ripgrep
command line. Must either be a list of flags or a function that
returns a list of flags.

### `rg-group-result`
Controls the layout of the results buffer. If non `nil`, each file
name is displayed once and matches are grouped under that filename
instead of repeating the filename on each match. This is essentially
the layout of the `--no-heading` ripgrep command line flag.
Default value is `nil` (off).

### `rg-show-columns`
Controls if column numbers are used in the search result.
Default value is `nil` (off).

### `rg-ignore-case`
Variable that controls when case sensitive search is made or not.
The following values can be set:

| Symbol | Description |
|-----|--------|
| `'case-fold-search` | Smart search based on `case-fold-search` setting. |
| `'smart` | Smart search. Case sensitive if at least one character is uppercase, otherwise ignore case. |
| `'force` | Force ignore case. |
| `nil` | Always case sensitive search. |

### `rg-hide-command`
Hide most of command line by default. This is enabled by default and
can be set to `nil` to show full command line by default.

### `rg-keymap-prefix`
This variable sets the default prefix used for the global key
bindings. Note that `rg-enable-default-bindings` needs to be invoked
for the bindings to be enabled.

### `rg-show-header`
Controls if the search info header is shown in the result
buffer. This is enabled by default but can be disabled by setting this
variable to `nil`.

### Position numbers alignment
When operating `rg.el` in grouped output mode (`rg-group-result` is
non nil), it's possible to control how the line and column numbers are
displayed in the result buffer.

Example settings:
``` emacs-lisp
(setq rg-align-position-numbers t)
(setq rg-align-line-number-field-length 3)
(setq rg-align-column-number-field-length 3)
(setq rg-align-line-column-separator "#")
(setq rg-align-position-content-separator "|")
```
Will yield the following format:

```
File: matched_file.foo
  1#  2|match1
888# 10|match2
```

#### `rg-align-position-numbers`
Setting this to `t` will align line and column numbers in columns
padded with whitespace.

#### `rg-align-line-number-field-length`
Defines the length of the line number field.

#### `rg-align-column-number-field-length`
Defines the length of the column number field.

#### `rg-align-line-column-separator`
Separator string used between line and column numbers.

#### `rg-align-position-content-separator`
Separator string used between the position numbers and matched
content.

### `rg-define-toggle`
This is a macro that can be used to define custom `ripgrep` flag
toggling functions in the rg result buffer. The macro takes the flag
(and potential value) as an argument and optionally binds the toggle
function to a key and enable the flag by default.

The function defined by this macro will be named as the flag name
stripped with leading dashes and prefixed with `rg-custom-toggle-flag-`.

```el
(rg-define-toggle "-uu" "I" t)

```
Creates a function named `rg-custom-toggle-flag-uu` that is on by
default and bound to <kbd>I</kbd> in `rg` result buffer.

``` el
(rg-define-toggle "--context 3" (kbd "C-c c"))
```
Creates a function named `rg-custom-toggle-flag-context` that is off by
default and bound to <kbd>C-c c</kbd> in `rg` result buffer.

### `rg-define-search`
This macro can be used to define custom search functions in a
declarative style. Default implementations for common behavior is
available and custom forms can also be used. See the package
documentation for details.

Example:

``` el
(rg-define-search search-home-dir-in-elisp
  "Doc string."
  :query ask
  :format literal
  :files "elisp"
  :dir (getenv "HOME"))
```

## Contribute

- Install [cask](http://cask.github.io/).
- Install dependencies:

``` Shell
make deps
```
- Run tests:

``` Shell
make test
```


## License

See [LICENSE](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Added `rg-buffer-name` to README

README.md, after:

# rg.el

[![License GPL 3](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-GPL_3-green.svg?style=flat)](LICENSE)
[![MELPA Stable](https://stable.melpa.org/packages/rg-badge.svg)](https://stable.melpa.org/#/rg)
[![MELPA](http://melpa.org/packages/rg-badge.svg)](http://melpa.org/#/rg)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dajva/rg.el.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/dajva/rg.el)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/dajva/rg.el/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/dajva/rg.el)

Use [ripgrep](https://github.com/BurntSushi/ripgrep) in Emacs.

Ripgrep is a replacement for both grep like (search one file) and ag
like (search many files) tools. It's fast and versatile and written in
Rust. For some introduction and benchmarks, see
[ripgrep is faster than {grep, ag, git grep, ucg, pt, sift}](http://blog.burntsushi.net/ripgrep/).

This package let you run `ripgrep` like `grep` from within Emacs.

![screenshot](screenshot.png)

## Installation

This package is available on
[MELPA Stable](https://stable.melpa.org/#/rg) and
[MELPA](http://melpa.org/#/rg). Install with `M-x package-install`
<kbd>RET</kbd> `rg` from within Emacs.

If you want to install manually just put `rg.el` somewhere in your
load path and add this to `init.el`

``` el
(require 'rg)
(rg-enable-default-bindings)
```

`rg` and friends are autoloaded symbols which means it's also possible
to defer loading if you have autoloading setup.

### wgrep

This package use [wgrep](https://github.com/mhayashi1120/Emacs-wgrep)
for doing changes to matched files from the rg results buffer. No
setup is needed.


## Usage

### Main entry point - `rg`
Invoke by `M-x rg`. This works the same way as `M-x rgrep`,
i.e. you get an interactive prompt to enter search details. Universal
argument can be used as for `rgrep`.

### Project search - `rg-project`
`M-x rg-project` searches in a project defined by
[projectile](https://github.com/bbatsov/projectile),
[find-file-in-project](https://github.com/technomancy/find-file-in-project)
or a `vc-backend`.

### Do what I mean - `rg-dwim`
`M-x rg-dwim` searches for _thing at point_ in a project in all files
with the same type alias as the current buffer file.

### Literal search - `rg-literal`
`M-x rg-literal` is a non regexp version of `rg`.

### Saving searches
A search result buffer can be saved by invoking `rg-save-search` or
`rg-save-search-as-name`. The former will give the saved buffer a
unique name and the latter will prompt the user for a name. The
`rg-list-searches` command will open a buffer with all active
`rg-mode` buffers showing basic information about each search.

### Type aliases

[ripgrep](https://github.com/BurntSushi/ripgrep) has its own built in
mappings from type names to file name patterns that can be selected
from `rg.el` on invocation of `rg`. It's also possible to specify a
custom file name pattern in the files prompt.

There are some aliases with special meanings in `rg.el`.

| Name | Meaning |
|-----|--------|
| _all_ | all defined types including `rg-custom-type-aliases` |
| _everything_ | all files, i.e. running rg without `--type` flag |
| _custom_ | used internally in ``rg.el`` for mapping custom globs. Do not use this in `rg-custom-type-aliases` |

### Key bindings
This package comes with a set of predefined key bindings that can be
enabled by calling `rg-enable-default-bindings` with an optional
prefix key of choice. The default prefix is `C-c s` and can be
customized with [rg-keymap-prefix](#rg-keymap-prefix).
It is also possible to set the prefix when invoking `rg-enable-default-bindings`.

```el
(rg-enable-default-bindings "\M-s")
```

| Key | Binding |
|-----|--------|
| `<prefix> d` | `rg-dwim` |
| `<prefix> k` | `rg-kill-saved-searches` |
| `<prefix> l` | `rg-list-searches` |
| `<prefix> p` | `rg-project` |
| `<prefix> r` | `rg` |
| `<prefix> s` | `rg-save-search` |
| `<prefix> S` | `rg-save-search-as-name` |
| `<prefix> t` | `rg-literal` |

### The results buffer
The `rg` results buffer has bindings for modification of the last
search for quick reruns with refined parameters.

| Key | Description |
|-----|--------|
| `c` | Toggle case insensitive setting |
| `d` | Change directory |
| `f` | Change file pattern |
| `g` | Rerun search |
| `i` | Toggle `--no-ignore` flag |
| `l` | List search buffers in a separate buffer |
| `r` | Edit search string as regexp |
| `s` | Save search result to unique name |
| `S` | Save search result, prompt for name |
| `t` | Edit search string as literal |
| `w` | Switch to wgrep mode |
| `C-f` | Navigate forward in search history |
| `C-b` | Navigate backward in search history |

### History navigation
Search history is stored per result buffer. It's possible to navigate back
and forward in earlier searches with `rg-back-history` and
`rg-forward-history`. Whenever a search is modified or a new is
created future searches are cleared.

## Customize

### `rg-custom-type-aliases`
Custom type patterns as for rgrep are supported via customizing of
`rg-custom-type-aliases`.

```el
(setq rg-custom-type-aliases
  '(("foo" .    "*.foo *.bar")
    ("baz" .    "*.baz *.qux")))
```

You may also add lambdas to `rg-custom-type-aliases` to add aliases
dynamically based on mode, directory, project, etc.

```el
 (add-to-list
  'rg-custom-type-aliases
  (lambda ()
    (when (in-frontend-app)
      (cons "ui" "*.js *.hbs *.json"))))
```
### `rg-default-alias-fallback`
This setting controls the default alias used when no alias can be
recognized for the current buffer. Default setting for this is _all_
and _everything_ is another reasonable value for this variable.

### `rg-command-line-flags`
Additional command line flags that will be appended to the ripgrep
command line. Must either be a list of flags or a function that
returns a list of flags.

### `rg-group-result`
Controls the layout of the results buffer. If non `nil`, each file
name is displayed once and matches are grouped under that filename
instead of repeating the filename on each match. This is essentially
the layout of the `--no-heading` ripgrep command line flag.
Default value is `nil` (off).

### `rg-show-columns`
Controls if column numbers are used in the search result.
Default value is `nil` (off).

### `rg-ignore-case`
Variable that controls when case sensitive search is made or not.
The following values can be set:

| Symbol | Description |
|-----|--------|
| `'case-fold-search` | Smart search based on `case-fold-search` setting. |
| `'smart` | Smart search. Case sensitive if at least one character is uppercase, otherwise ignore case. |
| `'force` | Force ignore case. |
| `nil` | Always case sensitive search. |

### `rg-hide-command`
Hide most of command line by default. This is enabled by default and
can be set to `nil` to show full command line by default.

### `rg-keymap-prefix`
This variable sets the default prefix used for the global key
bindings. Note that `rg-enable-default-bindings` needs to be invoked
for the bindings to be enabled.

### `rg-show-header`
Controls if the search info header is shown in the result
buffer. This is enabled by default but can be disabled by setting this
variable to `nil`.

### `rg-buffer-name`
Controls the name of the results buffer. It may be string or function. One usefull case of using it is to have separate result buffers per project.
One can set this variable in `dir-locals` file or set it to function. E.g. this function will set results buffer name based on `project-current`:

``` emacs-lisp
(defun my/rg-buffer-name ()
  (let ((p (project-current)))
    (if p
        (format "rg %s" (abbreviate-file-name (cdr p)))
      "rg"))))
```

### Position numbers alignment
When operating `rg.el` in grouped output mode (`rg-group-result` is
non nil), it's possible to control how the line and column numbers are
displayed in the result buffer.

Example settings:
``` emacs-lisp
(setq rg-align-position-numbers t)
(setq rg-align-line-number-field-length 3)
(setq rg-align-column-number-field-length 3)
(setq rg-align-line-column-separator "#")
(setq rg-align-position-content-separator "|")
```
Will yield the following format:

```
File: matched_file.foo
  1#  2|match1
888# 10|match2
```

#### `rg-align-position-numbers`
Setting this to `t` will align line and column numbers in columns
padded with whitespace.

#### `rg-align-line-number-field-length`
Defines the length of the line number field.

#### `rg-align-column-number-field-length`
Defines the length of the column number field.

#### `rg-align-line-column-separator`
Separator string used between line and column numbers.

#### `rg-align-position-content-separator`
Separator string used between the position numbers and matched
content.

### `rg-define-toggle`
This is a macro that can be used to define custom `ripgrep` flag
toggling functions in the rg result buffer. The macro takes the flag
(and potential value) as an argument and optionally binds the toggle
function to a key and enable the flag by default.

The function defined by this macro will be named as the flag name
stripped with leading dashes and prefixed with `rg-custom-toggle-flag-`.

```el
(rg-define-toggle "-uu" "I" t)

```
Creates a function named `rg-custom-toggle-flag-uu` that is on by
default and bound to <kbd>I</kbd> in `rg` result buffer.

``` el
(rg-define-toggle "--context 3" (kbd "C-c c"))
```
Creates a function named `rg-custom-toggle-flag-context` that is off by
default and bound to <kbd>C-c c</kbd> in `rg` result buffer.

### `rg-define-search`
This macro can be used to define custom search functions in a
declarative style. Default implementations for common behavior is
available and custom forms can also be used. See the package
documentation for details.

Example:

``` el
(rg-define-search search-home-dir-in-elisp
  "Doc string."
  :query ask
  :format literal
  :files "elisp"
  :dir (getenv "HOME"))
```

## Contribute

- Install [cask](http://cask.github.io/).
- Install dependencies:

``` Shell
make deps
```
- Run tests:

``` Shell
make test
```


## License

See [LICENSE](LICENSE).
